# Setup Java Edition Server

::: tip
This section assumes that you already have JRE installed. If not, see [Dependencies](/setup_package.md).
:::

## Deployment from Market
1. Go to the `Instances` page and click the `Create` button.
2. Select `Minecraft`, select your desired software and version and click `Install`.

You will be automatically redirected to the instance page after installation.

[Start your Minecraft Server](./setup_java_edition.md#starting-minecraft-server)

## Manual Deployment
### Download Server Core

The server core is the essential part of a Minecraft server. In general, all other required files will be generated by the core once started.

We will use Paper core as an example. Here are some popular versions:

- [1.18.2](https://api.papermc.io/v2/projects/paper/versions/1.18.2/builds/388/downloads/paper-1.18.2-388.jar)
- [1.19.4](https://api.papermc.io/v2/projects/paper/versions/1.19.4/builds/524/downloads/paper-1.19.4-524.jar)
- [1.20.4](https://api.papermc.io/v2/projects/paper/versions/1.20.4/builds/389/downloads/paper-1.20.4-389.jar)

> More versions：https://papermc.io/downloads

---

## Deployment

Start by clicking the `Create` button on the top right of the `Instances` page, and select `Create Directly`. Pick the `node` you want the server to run on and fill out the required information.

- When creating the instance, enter the following in the `Startup Command` field:

```bash
java -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -jar "paper-<version>.jar"
```

:::tip
You can provide many more arguments in the startup command. Feel free to explore more possibilities!
:::

:::tip
You can increase the heap size (Memory or RAM) by adding these two arguments to your startup command:

`-Xms` - specifies the initial heap size for the JVM  
`-Xmx` - specifies the maximum heap size for the JVM

Examples:
1. `-Xms256M -Xmx2G`
2. `-Xms2G -Xmx4G`

The final command should look something like this:
```bash
java -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -Xms2G -Xmx4G -jar "paper-<version>.jar"
```

You can adjust the values to your liking and find out what works best for your system!

:::warning
Please check how much RAM your system has before adding those arguments and don't allocate your full system's RAM to the JVM as the operating system your machine is running on also needs some resources to function. Ignoring this warning may result in a full system crash when running your server.
:::

After filling in the startup command, click `Create` to create the instance.

Go to `File Management` and upload the server core file you downloaded earlier.

## Starting Minecraft Server

After creating the instance, navigate to the instance console and start it by clicking the `Start` button located in the top-right corner.

## EULA

::: warning
If you do not agree to the Mojang's End-User License Agreement (EULA), you will not be able to start your server.
:::

To start the server for the first time, you must accept the `End-User License Agreement (EULA)`. To accept EULA, go to `Configuration Files`, and you will see `eula.txt`, click `edit` and select `yes`.

If you can't find this file, try starting your server.

## Changing the terminal's time zone

If the terminal's time zone is not the same as yours, you can add this command line argument to your Startup command:

```bash
-Duser.timezone=<TZ-Identifier>
```

Example:
```bash
java -Duser.timezone=Europe/Paris -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -Xms2G -Xmx4G -jar "paper-<version>.jar"
```

:::tip
You can find a list of all time zones and their identifiers [**here**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones).
:::